In this lesson we'll learn about the event handling in vue js
Actually we have used the event handling in the previous
lesson but this time we'll discuss it in more depth.
So event is something that happens inside the HTML element.
It can be triggered by the browser or by the user.
For example the page has finished loaded a button clicked
An input changes because the user type something
in it mouse move or a form submitted.
When an event occurs we might want to
do something by excluding javascript code.
Actually here there are two things.
First listen listen to the event.
And second do something or handling the event.
So we do something to listen the event. In vue js we
can handle events using the v-on directive and define
javascript code to be executed when the event is triggered.
v-on requires an argument
that is the name of the event that we want to listen to.
For example click or other available events such
as double click mouse move mouse out etc.
Then we can define javascript expression in it. Vue js also
provides a shorthand syntax for the 'v-on:' which is '@'
symbol. Now let's open the event handling one dot html.
And here we have three js frameworks listed
and each item has a button for voting.
Later
we will make use the v-on click on each button so
that when we click it the number of votes for each
framework will be increasing.
Now let's switch over to our editor.
Then open up the event handling one dot html file. In a
button
we can add an event handler
that is when we click it
the number of vote will be increasing v on click
framework
votes plus plus.
Now let's switch back over to our browser
and now if we click on each button the
number of votes will be increasing
the javascript expression that we defined
in the event can be a complex logic.
Maybe it consists of several lines of code.
Therefore in this v-on directive we can also call a method name
that we want to call. In this v-on click
let's change to up vote and pass
the framework in.
We could also use the v-on shorthand syntax
just @ symbol to make it much simpler.
Then in vue option we can define methods property
then create the up vote method
inside the method
we do almost the same thing as before
framework dot vote plus plus
if we go back to our browser and click
on each button it looks no difference.